Just so
that we could do a little bit of coding,
we're going to animate this ball and
see what some difference is instilled.
So I'm going to go into the root
of my directory, the style.scss.
You can ignore this style.css,
we don't need it, but
we're going to be working on style.scss.
And so let's say that we want
to actually animate this ball.
And what we're gonna be talking
about animations in a minute,
but I'm just going to have
animation slide-right.
Don't worry if you don't
know what this is.
We're gonna have a go for one second, and
we're gonna actually do a linear easing
just to show you what that looks like.
And we're gonna have it go
on infinite number of times.
Cool, so
we also need to find the keyframes for
this slide-right from transform:
translatex(0) to transform: translatex.
Let's have it go halfway to the screen and
back, so 50 viewport width.
Okay, so now you can see that this
ball is moving from left to right,
but this animation feels really,
really rigid.
And that's of course because
it is a linear animation.
So let's inspect this
element if we could catch it.
So it's a bad idea.
[LAUGH] Let's pause this for a minute.
We're going to, by the way,
this V app hot reloads.
So when we add this animation back, we
should still have it selected over here.
Now, I'm gonna bump the font size up
here too, so you can see everything.
And so when you inspect this
elements in the DevTools panel,
whether you're using Firefox,
Safari, or Chrome,
you're going to notice that in the styles,
or at least this is in Chrome.
But we have this little open cubic
Bezier editor symbol over here.
This is really useful, especially for
when you're trying to learn about what
do the difference easings actually do?
So right now, this is linear.
And so you could see that it's
just maintaining the same speed
from the beginning to
the end of the animation.
So if we click something like ease and
out,
which is a key word that you could use for
the easing,
you could see that it accelerates a
little, and then it decelerates a little.
So we could play around with this.
We could move it here, so
we could show it accelerating a lot and
then decelerating a little.
Or we could do it the other way around.
So we can move this to the left and
we could see that it accelerates a little.
And then it's spending most of
its animation decelerating a lot.
So there's a plenty of
other ones over here, and
I recommend that you just
try each one of these out.
But again, it can seem random that
we have all these numbers and
no clear idea of what they mean.
But by dragging around these control
points and seeing the animation live,
then you should be able to get a pretty
good idea of what the easing is doing.
Now, my recommendation is,
if we go back to the slides,
is to always keep this number.
So the y value, the first y value is 0,
and the second y value, 1.
The reason that I recommend
this is because it
becomes a lot less confusing to
figure out the other two numbers.
Because when you do that,
the other two numbers just become just
like something that you could adjust,
and you could pretty much
describe most curves like this.
So if I do this, I can have it pretty
much accelerate all the way through,
or really accelerate if I want to.
And so you don't have to really think
about moving this up here or down there.
The reason that I like having 0 and
1 as y values too is because it
really models the real world.
When something starts moving,
it's going to start at a speed of zero.
And when something stops moving,
you want it to, of course,
stop at the speed of zero.
So if your y values are different,
then you're basically saying, hey,
this isn't exactly starting and
stopping at zero, it's starting and
stopping from some speed.
And personally,
that feels a little bit unnatural.
So just to make things easy,
have those y values be 0 and 1.
Of course, you could do whatever
you want there but, yeah.
Question?
>> Yeah, do you tend to mix different
easing types in a feature or
use CSS variables or
SAS variables to kinda keep that.
Or is there a benefit
to kinda keeping that,
if there's an arrow animation on
the button and an arrow animation there,
keep them both at the same easing for
consistency?
Or do you tend to just kinda
each animation is kinda specific
to what the animation is doing?
>> Yeah, so
that's a really good question, and
we are gonna be getting into
CSS variables in just a minute.
But as far as using different easings,
it is important that, if you can,
define different easings for
three types of movements animations.
So there's entry,
which is when an element comes into view.
There's movements, where an element
is moving from one place to another.
And then there's exits, which, of course,
is an element moving out of view.
Now, some animation principles
that Google's motion design,
I believe they're called, have talked
about is that when you're doing
an entry animation, or basically any
animation, you want it to not be too slow.
You want it to feel like something that's
snappy, but of course not too snappy.
And so the general guidelines they
have around this is between 200 and
500 milliseconds for an animation.
Now, of course, this is up to you.
You might have animations that are less
time to that or longer than that.
And you could also make
animations feel longer or
shorter, depending on
how you do the easing.
But with that said, let's say that
you're showing a modal, right?
When a user clicks something and
they want to see the modal,
of course it's something big and
on the screen.
You don't want it to be too jarring.
So you might want to have a little
bit of a longer duration, and
you might also want to adjust the easing,
so that it might decelerate a little more.
So you can see that just coming into
view and then slowly fully appearing.
Now, when it comes to an exit animation,
like you want the modal to disappear,
one of the worst things I've seen on many
websites actually is the modal takes its
sweet time disappearing.
It's like okay, goodbye,
I guess I'll talk to you later.
It's like no, I'm clicking the x,
because I really, really want you gone.
And so in that case, you could either
make it disappear instantaneously,
or you could just make
it disappear faster.
So you could play around with
the easing there and say, okay,
I want this to really
accelerate out of here.
So you could do something like that.
And so basically just making it go away,
because at this point,
we really don't care about where it stops.
This modal is supposed to disappear
completely, so you could just play around
with the easing and make it so it's like,
okay, I'm rushing out of here.
And I'm not going to be annoying or
disturbing the user.
So yeah, in general,
I would recommend different easings for
those three types, entry,
exit, and movement animations.
And of course, you could play around
with them and see how you like each one.